MICCAI 2015

Reviews of submission #110: "Deep Convolutional Encoder Networks for
Multiple Sclerosis Lesion Segmentation"

------------------------ Submission 110, Review 1 ------------------------

Overall rating:     5  (scale is 0..6; 6 is best)

Expertise

   Expert 

Overall Recommendation

   Good - Accept 

Summary, Contributions and Significance

   The authors try to tackle the well-known problem of white matter lesion
   segmentation using a convolutional neural network. The main contribution
   of the paper is a relatively novel way of performing segmentation using
   entire volumes instead of patch based approaches. I think the results
   show that these types of techniques have an important place in the future
   of medical imaging.

Strengths and Weaknesses

   One of the main strengths is the novel methodological approach combined
   with a thorough evaluation, both on publicly available data and on a
   large private data set. For me the main novel aspect is moving from
   patch-based to full image evaluation.

   Strengths:

   - Novel methodology, not just the application of convolutional neural
   networks, but mostly moving from the traditional patch based approaches
   to full volume approaches. It is important to note however that this does
   not translate as well to cases were volumes are larger and that network
   architecture can not be as complex.

   - Thorough evaluation on both publicly available data and a large set of
   private data. 

   - Paper is well-written and the methodology is clearly explained.

   Weaknesses:

   - The authors could have give some references to other papers which use a
   similar strategy to segment areas in an image (I don't know any in
   medical imaging, but for example the crows segmentation paper by Kang et
   al. (http://arxiv.org/abs/1411.4464)

   - The discussion of the limitations of their approach is very limited.
   One disadvantage is that feeding entire volumes to the network currently
   limits the applicability to other problems. Furthermore, there comparison
   to the method by Ciresan et al is not really fair, he uses a 11-layer,
   much more complex network compared to the authors.

   - Personally, I don't think the loss function is very novel, it feels
   like a relatively straightforward extension to loss functions used in
   other papers.

Constructive Feedback

   For this paper I wouldn't change too much. I don't like the comparison
   the Ciresan et al. paper, as it is not completely fair. Furthermore, I
   would not automatically assume that if a lesion has similar contrast, it
   was missed during annotation (although I know that annotations of white
   matter lesions in these types of MRI typically contain a lot of missed
   lesions).

   If I could give one suggestion to improve it (although I don't feel this
   is required), I would reduce the description of the loss function and
   spent a paragraph on the limitations of the proposed methodology.


------------------------ Submission 110, Review 2 ------------------------

Overall rating:     3  (scale is 0..6; 6 is best)

Expertise

   Expert 

Overall Recommendation

   Short of acceptable - Probably reject 

Summary, Contributions and Significance

   This paper describes a neural network approach to brain lesion
   segmentation in multiple sclerosis patients.  The NN applies 32 different
   spatial filters to the data and learns how to best weight the outputs
   from the filters. The method is validated on the MICCAI lesion challenge
   and an in-house data set and shown to perform similar to other state of
   the art approaches.

Strengths and Weaknesses

   - The approach has some moderate novelty in its application of neural
   networks but this general idea has been applied before as referenced by
   the authors and also in Sweeney et al, "OASIS is Automated Statistical
   Inference for Segmentation, with applications to multiple sclerosis
   lesion segmentation in MRI", NeuroImage Clinical 2,402-413,2013, which
   also applies filters and weights the outputs, although using a logistic
   regression instead of a NN.
   - There is no evaluation of statistical significance and the differences
   between the propose approach and Geremia et al seem very small.

Constructive Feedback

   - Comparisons should be more rigorous with measures of statistical
   significance. 
   - It would be interesting to understand what filters are important and
   possibly feed patches into the same system to better understand the
   differences.  


------------------------ Submission 110, Review 3 ------------------------

Overall rating:     4  (scale is 0..6; 6 is best)

Expertise

   Knowledgeable 

Overall Recommendation

   Sufficient - Probably accept 

Summary, Contributions and Significance

   The authors present a method for segmenting MS lesions using
   convolutional encoder networks and an objective function in the form of a
   weighted sum of different classes. Their approach combines feature
   extraction and class prediction within the layers of the network,
   eliminating the need for manual feature selection and optimizing the task
   as a function of segmentation performance.

Strengths and Weaknesses

   The paper is very well structured, easily guiding the reader throughout
   its contents. It presents the advantage of their approach over existing
   methods and is concise in reviewing their CEN methodology. Even though
   the CEN kernels implicitly take into account spatial information, an
   explicit incorporation of prior spatial information might improve the
   obtained results. Another point is that the authors make no mention as to
   why the downsampled the images from the MS lesion segmentation challenge.
   Nonetheless, these are only minor weaknesses of the methodology and
   paper. 

Constructive Feedback

   The work presents clear advantages of the use of CEN over other automated
   classification methods and might be considered for participation in the
   program. Suggestions for improvement are along the line of incorporating
   spatial information into the classification task to increase its
   accuracy. This can be achieved using atlases, models, context-aware
   features, amongst others. 



